README.md, before:


# Intrusion Detector

![Intrusion Detector](https://github.com/lawrence316/Intrusion_Dectector/images/detection.png)

**Network Intrusion Detection System (NIDS) in Python**

Intrusion Detector is a Python-based tool designed to detect and monitor network intrusions. It leverages various Python packages to provide robust and efficient intrusion detection capabilities. Whether you're securing your home network or managing a large-scale enterprise system, Intrusion Detector has you covered.

## Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Introduction
Network security is critical in today's interconnected world. Intrusion Detector helps you safeguard your systems by identifying suspicious activities and potential threats. Whether it's detecting unauthorized access attempts, monitoring traffic anomalies, or alerting administrators, this tool provides an essential layer of defense.

## Features
- **Real-Time Monitoring**: Intrusion Detector continuously analyzes network traffic, identifying patterns and anomalies.
- **Detection Algorithms**: Utilizes machine learning and rule-based algorithms to detect known attack signatures and abnormal behavior.
- **Alert System**: Sends notifications (email, SMS, or custom hooks) when suspicious activity is detected.
- **Customizable Rules**: Easily configure rules based on your specific environment and threat landscape.

## Installation
1. Clone this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/intrusion-detector.git
   cd intrusion-detector
   ```

2. Install the required packages:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Configure settings:
   - Edit `config.yaml` to set up your network interfaces, alert thresholds, and notification preferences.

## Usage
1. Start the Intrusion Detector:
   ```bash
   python main.py
   ```
   Ensure you have the necessary permissions to monitor network traffic.

2. Monitor the console output for alerts and anomalies.

3. Customize rules and actions in `rules.yaml`.

## Contributing
We welcome contributions! If you'd like to improve this project, follow these steps:
1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature-branch`).
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add new feature'`).
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature-branch`).
5. Open a pull request.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

update the code with revised ReadMe,requirement and detection notebook

README.md, after:



# Intrusion Detector

![Intrusion Detector](https://github.com/lawrence316/Intrusion_Dectector-.git/intrusion-detector.png)

**Network Intrusion Detection System (NIDS) in Python**

Intrusion Detector is a Python-based tool designed to detect and monitor network intrusions. It leverages various Python packages to provide robust and efficient intrusion detection capabilities. Whether you're securing your home network or managing a large-scale enterprise system, Intrusion Detector has you covered.

## Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Introduction
Network security is critical in today's interconnected world. Intrusion Detector helps you safeguard your systems by identifying suspicious activities and potential threats. Whether it's detecting unauthorized access attempts, monitoring traffic anomalies, or alerting administrators, this tool provides an essential layer of defense.

## Features
- **Real-Time Monitoring**: Intrusion Detector continuously analyzes network traffic, identifying patterns and anomalies.
- **Detection Algorithms**: Utilizes machine learning and rule-based algorithms to detect known attack signatures and abnormal behavior.
- **Alert System**: Sends notifications (email, SMS, or custom hooks) when suspicious activity is detected.
- **Customizable Rules**: Easily configure rules based on your specific environment and threat landscape.

## Requirements

- **Python Version**: 3.7 or higher


## Installation
1. Clone this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/intrusion-detector.git
   cd intrusion-detector
   ```
 

2. Install the required packages:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
  


## Usage
1. Open the Jupyter Notebook:
   ```bash
   jupyter notebook intrusion_detection.ipynb
   ```
   Run the cells in the notebook to execute the intrusion detection model.

2. Monitor the console output for alerts and anomalies.


## Code Overview
- **Data Generation**: Generates a synthetic dataset to simulate network traffic.
- **Data Preprocessing**: Splits the dataset into training and testing sets and scales features.
- **Model Training**: Trains a Random Forest Classifier for signature-based detection.
- **Anomaly Detection**: Utilizes Isolation Forest for identifying anomalies in the data.
- **Evaluation**: Evaluates model performance using confusion matrix, classification report, and accuracy score.

## Contributing
We welcome contributions! If you'd like to improve this project, follow these steps:
1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature-branch`).
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add new feature'`).
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature-branch`).
5. Open a pull request.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

s
